School Knacks
-------------

## Absorb Void

**Ring:** N/A

A number of times per day equal to your rank in this knack, you may draw void 
from your surroundings and regain a spent void point. If you target a character 
when doing this, that character loses a void point; if that character has no 
void points then the next time they would regain one they do not. You may do 
this either while conversing with that character or when attacking or being 
attacked by that character in combat, but you may not target the same character 
more than once per day.


## Athletics

**Ring:** varies

When performing generic athletic tasks, roll extra dice equal to this knack.
You may also use this knack to attack or parry. If you use it to attack, your 
TN is equal to 5 plus 10 times the defender's parry skill. If you use it to 
parry, then your TN is raised by 5 times the attack skill of the attacker.


## Commune

**Ring:** varies

You may ask the elemental spirits about events which they have recently 
witnessed. Spend a void point and roll this knack with the Ring of the element 
of the spirits you are questioning. This is an open roll, and the GM weighs it 
against the time passed since the events in question and how much has happened 
here since then.

Different elemental spirits perceive humans differently and give different 
types of information about them. Fire spirits read surface thoughts, Air 
spirits sense emotional states, Earth spirits perceive the motives behind 
actions, and Water spirits see the directions of comings and goings. The higher 
your roll, the more details about these things you receive.


## Conviction

**Ring:** N/A

You receive 2X points per day, where X is equal to the rank of this knack. 
After you make any roll, you may spend up to X of these points to raise the 
roll by the number of points spent.


## Counterattack

**Ring:** Fire

When an opponent attacks you, roll this knack to make an attack against them 
before they roll theirs. If you counterattack an attack directed at someone 
else, the TN is raised by 5 times the attacker's parry skill. You may 
counterattack as an interrupt action.


## Detect Taint

**Ring:** Earth

This knack is used to detect the Shadowlands Taint in humans. To use it, you 
must spend a full minute concentrating on someone, who cannot leave your sight 
during this time. Success is automatic against anyone without the ability to 
conceal their Shadowlands Taint, although you must still roll the knack every 
time.

Against bloodspeakers, this is a contested roll against their Fear knack. If 
successful, the GM secretly rolls 1k1, and the Witch Hunter successfully 
detects the Shadowlands Taint if the roll is greater than twice the 
bloodspeaker's School Rank.

The following bonuses and penalties apply to the 
contested roll:
* The bloodspeaker gets a bonus of 10 * (7 – X) to their roll, where X is the 
bloodspeaker's Shadowlands Taint.
* If forced to swallow a piece of jade, this bonus is eliminated entirely.
* If stabbed by a jade object enough to draw blood during the roll, 
bloodspeakers can't reroll 10s.
* Because servants of the Dark Lord cannot stand to be bound, if you tie the 
hands of a bloodspeaker, they are unable to receive any other bonuses to their 
roll, such as their Desire knack, or their Rank 3 Technique.
* By tying a bloodspeaker's arms tightly to their body as well as tightly tying 
their legs together, Witch Hunters receive two free raises per hour in which 
the bloodspeaker was tied in this manner before the detect Taint roll is made.
* By spending extra time concentrating on a single target, the Witch Hunter 
receives two free raises per hour.


## Discern Honor

**Ring:** N/A

By engaging another character in conversation you may gain insight into that 
character's Honor. When you use this knack the GM tells you that that 
character's honor + 0.5 * (1k1 – 0.5). After each conversation past the 
first, you get a more accurate idea of their honor, and the GM tells you a 
number which is 0.X closer to the truth, where X is your rank in this knack.


## Double Attack

**Ring:** Fire

The TN to hit your target is raised by 20. If successful, roll extra damage 
dice as if the TN hadn't been raised, and inflict a serious wound in addition 
to the normal damage roll. On an unsuccessful parry, this extra serious wound 
becomes 2 extra rolled damage dice, or 4 extra rolled damage dice if someone 
else unsucessfully parried for the target.


## Dragon Tattoo

**Ring:** N/A

At the beginning of each combat round, you may breath spiritual fire which 
extends around you 10 feet in every direction. These flames do not harm 
physical objects, except that they deal (2X)k1 damage to any characters you 
choose to be harmed, where X is your rank in this knack.



## Feint

**Ring:** Fire

This attack does no damage, but if successful it yields a temporary void point 
which may be used this round. Your highest action is then moved to the current 
phase. The target is not told whether the attack against them is a feint until 
after they see whether it hits, and after any parries are resolved.


## Iaijutsu

**Ring:** Fire

The iaijutsu rules are explained with the other combat rules.


## Kharmic Spin

**Ring:** Void

Spend a void and roll this knack to swap the highest and second highest Ring 
ranks of the target character for the remainder of one conversation or fight. 
In the case of a tie for the second-lowest Ring, the target chooses which Ring 
is switched with the highest one. You roll this knack against a secret TN equal 
to 5 times the sum of the ranks of the target character's two highest Rings. 
You may do this either while conversing with that character or when attacking 
or being attacked by that character in combat, but you may not target the same 
character more than once per day.


## Lunge

**Ring:** Fire

Roll this knack instead of attack when attacking someone to roll an extra die 
of damage if you hit. Everyone fighting you gets a free raise on their next 
attack against you this round.


## Oppose Knowledge

**Ring:** Air

You have such command over factual arguments that you can trip others up. Once 
per conversation you may target a character, roll this knack, and divide the 
result by 5, rounding down. Subtract that amount from all skill rolls made by 
that character for the rest of the conversation which roll with Water.


## Oppose Social

**Ring:** Water

You have such command over social situations that you can trip others up. Once 
per conversation you may target a character, roll this knack, and divide the 
result by 5, rounding down. Subtract that amount from all skill rolls made by 
that character for the rest of the conversation which roll with Air.


## Otherworldliness

**Ring:** N/A

When rolling a basic skill, you may increase the skill's rank by one, to a 
maximum of five. This may be done multiple times on the same roll, but only a 
number of times per adventure equal to twice your rank in this knack.


## Pontificate

**Ring:** Water

Once per conversation, you may use your practiced aura of knowledgeable 
confidence to roll this knack instead of any basic skill when making an 
uncontested roll.


## Presence

**Ring:** Water

Once per conversation, you may use your practiced presence of authority to roll 
this knack instead of any skill when making a contested roll initiated by 
another character.


## Spellcasting

**Ring:** varies

To cast a spell, you spend actions equal to its mastery level minus 2. You then 
roll this knack with the Ring of that spell's element against a TN of its 
mastery level times 5. You may not cast the same spell more than once per 
combat round.

After you roll, you lose void points equal to its mastery level. For every 5 by 
which you exceed the TN, this cost is lowered by 1, to a minimum of 1. If you 
end up not having enough void points, then all of your void points are lost and 
you fail to cast the spell.

## Worldliness

**Ring:** N/A

Each adventure, you may spend a number of extra void points equal to the rank 
of this knack.

